fantasy

"Dwarf", "Elf", "Gnome", "Halfling", "Human", "Half Elf", "Half Orc"

Dwarf: These short and stocky defenders of mountain fortresses are often seen as stern and humorless. Known for mining the earth’s treasures and crafting magnificent items from ore and gemstones, they have an unrivaled affinity for the bounties of the deep earth. Dwarves also have a tendency toward traditionalism and isolation that sometimes manifests as xenophobia.

Elf: Tall, noble, and often haughty, elves are long-lived and subtle masters of the wilderness. Elves excel in the arcane arts. Often they use their intrinsic link to nature to forge new spells and create wondrous items that, like their creators, seem nearly impervious to the ravages of time. A private and often introverted race, elves can give the impression they are indifferent to the plights of others.

Gnome: Expatriates of the strange land of fey, these small folk have a reputation for flighty and eccentric behavior. Many gnomes are whimsical artisans and tinkers, creating strange devices powered by magic, alchemy, and their quirky imagination. Gnomes have an insatiable need for new experiences that often gets them in trouble.

Half Elf: Often caught between the worlds of their progenitor races, half-elves are a race of both grace and contradiction. Their dual heritage and natural gifts often create brilliant diplomats and peacemakers, but half-elves are often susceptible to an intense and even melancholic isolation, realizing that they are never truly part of elven or human society.

Half Orc: Often fierce and savage, sometimes noble and resolute, half-orcs can manifest the best and worst qualities of their parent races. Many half-orcs struggle to keep their more bestial natures in check in order to epitomize the most heroic values of humanity. Unfortunately, many outsiders see half-orcs as hopeless abominations devoid of civility, if not monsters unworthy of pity or parley.

Halfling: Members of this diminutive race find strength in family, community, and their own innate and seemingly inexhaustible luck. While their fierce curiosity is sometimes at odds with their intrinsic common sense, half lings are eternal optimists and cunning opportunists with an incredible knack for getting out the worst situations.

Human: Ambitious, sometimes heroic, and always confident, humans have an ability to work together toward common goals that makes them a force to be reckoned with. Though short-lived compared to other races, their boundless energy and drive allow them to accomplish much in their brief lifetimes.


AbilityPlus  AbilityMinus Size  Type (subtype)  Speed Starting Languages  Senses  Defensive Traits  Offensive Traits  Skill Bonuses BonusFeats SpellAbilities
Dwarf Constitution, Wisdom  Charisma  Medium  Humanoid (dwarf)  20 ft.  Common, Dwarven Darkvision 60 ft. AC bonus, Saving Throw bonus, CMD bonus Attack bonus, weapon familiarity  Appraise, Perception  - - #
Elf Dexterity, Intelligence Constitution  Medium  Humanoid (elf)  30 ft.  Common, Elven Low-light vision  Elven immunities  Weapon familiarity  Perception  - - #
Gnome Constitution, Charisma  Strength  Small Humanoid (gnome)  20 ft.  Common, Gnome, Sylvan Low-light vision  Defensive training, illusion resistance Hatred, weapon familiarity  Perception, Craft or Profession - dancing lights, ghost sound, prestidigitation #
Half-elf  Any None  Medium  Humanoid (elf, human) 30 ft.  Common, Elven Low-light vision  Elven immunities  - Perception  Skill Focus - #
Halfling  Dexterity, Charisma Strength  Small Humanoid (halfling) 20 ft.  Common, Halfling  - Fearless, halfling luck Weapon familiarity  Perception, Acrobatics, Climb - - #
Half-orc  Any None  Medium  Humanoid (human, orc) 30 ft.  Common, Orc Darkvision  - Orc ferocity, weapon familiarity  Intimidate  - - #
Human Any None  Medium  Humanoid (human)  30 ft.  Common  - - - - Any one - #


